Are right.
So like I mentioned before we're not going to cover a lot of integrals because they are not needed for
neither Bass's calculus nor a calculus one.
So we're going to go over the basic rules for integration.
Of course if you go on to take calculus too.
Or maybe a different subject you might see more integration than what we do here.
But again for the class that you're taking this is very likely to be what you will see.
So here we have four main rules that are used for simple integrals.
The power rule which we already covered the logarithmic rule the constant rule and the exponential rule.
So let's do each one with a couple of examples.
Let's go I get into the power rule so I'll summarize it here.
But we did that in another video and we did it in a separate video because it is the most important
rule for integrals.
So the rule says if you have the integral of x to the N so of a power function then what you're going
to do is you're going to take this X and then you're going to add 1 to the exponents.
So that will be.
And plus 1 over and plus 1 So remember we have a mnemonic for this.
It is increase and divide.
So we increase the exponent by 1 and we divide by the new exponent.
And of course let's not forget the plus seat.
All right.
So integral of x to the N is X to the end plus 1 over and plus 1.
And then you do plus see.
So for example if we have the integral of x to the 100 and 3 dx
that is going to be X to the 1 0 3 plus 1 over the same thing 1 0 3 plus 1 then we do plus see.
And that will be equal to do it down here because I don't have a lot of space X to the one of four over
one of four.
So notice the exponent of the X is the same thing that you divide by that is always the case for the
power rule.
So actually the fourth over 104 plus C and that is our final answer.
All right.
So if you still have questions about the power rule I recommend that you go back to the power rule video
where I explain this in more detail.
Let's move on to the constant rule.
So the concer rule is actually an example of the power rule.
Remember that I've said before that for example if you have the number five that is the same as saying
5 x to the 0.
Right because it's five times x to the zeros just one.
So that's why this becomes five times one is just five.
So the constant rule takes advantage of this fact to find the indefinite integrals of constant functions.
So the rule says if you have the integral of a constant k.
All right so OK could be any number the next and that is equal to k.
The constant again x.
So we're adding an X to that number plus C right.
So we take the constant we put an X next to it and we do plus C and let's not get confused with this.
This is something else right.
So for example if we have the integral of actually let's do the same five five DX here we have a constant.
So all we need to do is we add an X and if you're wondering why this is.
Well think about it think of this as integral of 5 x to 0.
Right.
Like I explained over here same thing.
Now that we have an exponents we could treat it as a power rule.
Right.
So we keep the five.
And then what do we do with the X..
You increase and divide.
So it's 5 x to the 0 plus 1.
We're adding one to the exponent and then we're dividing by the same exponent 0 plus 1 right.
And then we do plus see.
So that becomes 5 x 2 0 plus 1 is just x to the 1 or X and 0 plus 1 on the bottom is just 1.
So 5 x over 1 is still 5 x so we don't have to mark the one on the bottom plus see.
All right so the integral of 5 ends up being 5 x plus C the same number of times x plus the constant.
Let's do another example.
Two hundred and thirty five.
All right.
It's a bigger number but at the end of the day it is still a number.
All right still a constant.
So remember all we need to do is put an X next to the number and then add the plus the interval of to
35 equals to 35 x plus see and that's it.
That is our answer for this one.
And this one is our answer for the first one.
All right.
Pretty easy.
Just add an X to the constant and add the policy and you're good to go.
All right.
Moving on to the logarithmic rule I don't have a lot of space over here so I'll do a down here.
As you know the derivative of LNA VAX and this I actually do here.
So if you have L-N of x and you want to get the derivative of this remember that this is equal to 1
over X we talked about this in logarithmic functions S..
So given this it's obvious that if you have one over X and you integrate it you're going back to Atlanta
X right.
So the rule says integral of one over X
equals L.A.X.
plus C..
Now there's one caveat to this and it is the fact that you have to do the absolute value of x.
So maybe you do not know the absolute value just means take the number within the absolute value and
make it positive if it's positive.
There's nothing you need to do if it's negative.
You make it positive for this integral.
We always do L-N of the absolute value of x plus C.
And again I don't want to bore you with all the details.
So why this includes an absolute value here.
If you want to you can look it up.
But for now just know that when you have the integral of one over X then that is a natural log of the
absolute value of x plus C..
So one thing I want to mention is remember that one over X could be rewritten as something else.
Remember that this is one over x to the 1 because if we have X that is the same as saying X to the 1.
And remember that we could actually bring this x to the one to the top by flipping the sign of the exponent.
So in other words one over X is the same as saying X to the negative one.
Right.
Let me put a one here so you know what I'm talking about.
One X to the one is the same as bringing this x to the one to the top and then flipping the sign of
the exponents.
So if you get this integral integral of x to the negative one.
Remember this is the same as saying the integral of one over x.
Because these two are equivalent and you may look at this and say oh it's a power function so I can
just go ahead and apply the power rule.
However what happens remember that for the power rule we do increase and divide.
If we increase this it's going to be negative one plus one.
It's going to be an exponent of 0 and that's OK.
The problem is when you divide by zero.
Right.
If you divide by zero.
That math breaks down and you can't do it.
So this adds to the negative one is the only example of a power function which does not use the power
rule.
Any other power function you use a power tool for.
So if it's X for the negative to x to the negative 3 x to the 20th X to the one hundredth etc. X to
the negative one is the only example in which you cannot just apply the power rule.
And if you forget this fact you'll know right away when you start doing it because you'll get division
by zero.
All right.
Just want you to be aware of the fact that one over X is the same as x to the negative one and its integral.
Like we said on top is L-N of the absolute value of x plus C..
All right
cool.
So let's go to our alast rule which is the exponential rule.
Remember that an exponential function looks something like this.
An amusing is a base but your base could be any other number.
Right.
E to the X.
So let's see how this works out with integrals.
The exponential rule says that if you have integral of E to the power k x a K is just a number
and that is equal to one over OK so one over this constant that's in the exponents to the K x plus C.
All right so I know that was a little bit messy but bear with me.
So although we're doing here is we have this base to this xponent K x.
And what we do is we take this K and we divide everything by K and then we just write again this E to
the K x that doesn't change.
All right.
So let's do one example.
And to grow of the to 3 X right.
So in this example k equals 3 right because K is whatever numbers multiplying the DX right k x.
In this case it's 3x.
So according to this we do 1 over k.
So it's basically taking this 3 and saying 1 over 3.
And then we just keep the two the three x.
All right.
So you see that we brought down those three dividing and then we rewrite this thing again each to the
three X does exactly what we did.
And then plus C so it kind of looks difficult here but I saw about it all.
So divide by K and keep the E to the K x and then add the plus see of course.
All right.
So let's do another example which is actually a very special case of this rule.
What if you have the X just plain old E to the x y is the integral of this.
Well what is k in this case.
It kind of looks like it's not marked right what's multiplying is x.
So remember that when there's really nothing multiplying something we can think of it as a 1.
Right.
So each of the X is the same as saying each to the one times X. Right.
We're multiplying 1 times x.
And given this.
Now we can apply our rule.
Right.
So K is 1 and then we bring down the K.
So that becomes 1 over 1.
This is K down here.
To the one time is X which is again e to the X plus C but what is 1 over 1 is just one.
So we don't need to market at the end of the day we have each of the X plus C.
So check it out.
The integral of each of the X is the same.
Each of the X.
Right.
Nothing changes just like we saw in the exponential function section that the derivative of the X is.
Each of the x Well the integral of each of the X is also each of the X.
So basically each of the X is this immutable function that never changes.
When you get the derivative you get to the X and when you get the integral you also get to the X right.
Remember Like I mentioned in our mnemonic that your X never changes.
That's why you don't go back with them.
Same thing each of the X never changes whether you're getting the derivative or you're getting the integral.
It's always equal to the X..
All right
of course you always need to add the plus C because that's the way indefinite integrals work.
All right.
And let me just circle the answer for the first one which was this one here.
And that is it for the exponential rule.
All right so here we have are four integration rules.
Again these are very simple.
They're used to find that and the rows of very simple functions like we said we have the power rule.
So we increase and divide.
We have a constant row where we basically just put an X next to the concept and that's going to give
you the integral that we have the logarithmic rule that tells you that if you're finding the integral
of one over x or x the negative one which is the same thing then that is equal to the natural log of
absolute value of x plus C and finally exponential rule where if you have E to the K X or K is a number
you pretty much bring down the K and then you keep the E to the K x.
Right.
Like I said this each of the X is a very special case.
This case k is 1.
And at the end of the day you get that the indefinite integral of each of the X is just to the X plus
C.
So these are our integration rules.
Now let's look at some properties that we can use to break integrals apart and then be able to do them
all right.
Later on we're going to mix these rules with the properties that we're going to cover now and then you'll
be doing integrals in no time.